# Sipyr News

Sipyr News is a collection of aggregated feeds letting users create curated
feeds and share them with friends.

Every feed comes with a front-page of all the stories from the last twenty-four
hours. My goal with this project is to make reading and browsing the news a
relaxing and enjoyable experience.

Authentication still needs to be implemented, but it will allow users to define
their own feeds and tweak which sources are included in them.

Un-authenticated users can access and read any feeds and are not allowed to make
changes or edits. Maybe private feeds can be created later on, we'll see.

Also TODO, users should be able to see the list of sources on a feed, view all
articles beyond the front-page, and search for articles.

## Web App

The `app` directory contains a [Deno Fresh](https://fresh.deno.dev/)
application. The web app runs as a single web service which serves up pages
defined in the `app/routes` directory.

### Pages

#### Feed Front Page

The `/feed/[name]/front-page` endpoint (where name is the name of a feed)
returns a the front page for the feed. As mentioned before, the front page
contains a list of stories from the last twenty-four hours sorted by the time
they were published in descending order.

### BFF API

The BFF (backend-for-frontend) API is a local proxy which routes requests to the
implementation backend service.

#### Queries: Front Page Articles

The `/api/queries/front-page-articles` endpoint services stored article data for
a feed's front page.

The query expects the following structure:

```json
{
  "feedName": "my_feed_name",
  "initialized": {
    "secondsSinceEpoch": 1772917040
  },
  "page": 1,
  "pageSize": 10
}
```

The `initialized` field defines the time at which the request was made. This
ensures updates to the database doesn't break the paging structure. With the
backend being supported by an events database, we can retrieve any events at or
prior to the initialized time and be confident that no unexpected changes will
arrive.

## Events Service

The events project (located in `services/events`) contains event definitions
that will be stored in the `events` table in PostgreSQL. Each event belongs in a
category which can all be stored in the same stream.

There are currently two categories of events: `sources` and `feeds`.

Sources defines events related to the articles that have been published for a
particular RSS source. A source represents a website or blog which has its own
feed of articles and stories.

Feeds defines events related to the addition or removal of sources from a public
feed. A feed also has a single maintainer (initially the creator of the feed).
The maintainer role can be transferred to another user by the current
maintainer. Currently only one maintainer exists on a feed at a time. The
current maintainer may add or remove sources from a feed.

## Queries Service

The queries service (located in `services/queries`) is a Scala web backend
project using [Smithy4s](https://disneystreaming.github.io/smithy4s/) and
[Http4s](https://http4s.org/). The service reads event data from the PostgreSQL
database and aggregates the event content into views for the frontend.

A view for a frontend or client is "hydrated" using a set of events, possibly
from many streams and stream types (aka categories).

## Database

The database contains a single table "event_streams" with the following schema:

```sql
CREATE TABLE event_streams (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  persisted_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  type_name VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL,
  stream_name VARCHAR(128) NOT NULL,
  stream_index INTEGER NOT NULL,
  event_type_name VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL,
  content JSON NOT NULL,
  UNIQUE (type_name, stream_name, stream_index)
);
```

The `id` field is a unique key for a particular event. It is auto-generated by
PostgreSQL on inserts.

The `persisted_at` field defines the timestamp of the event using the number of
seconds since the computer epoch (1970).

The `type_name` field should probably be named `category` at some point, or
`entity_name`. It defines the category or grouping of the events. This value
should be `sources` if the event is related to a source entity, or `feeds` if
the event is related to a feed entity. I'll probably need to add a user entity
at some point too.

The `stream_name` field defines the name of the stream this event belongs in. In
the case of a source event, this would be the name encoding of the RSS source.
In the case of a feed event, it is the name of the feed.

The `stream_index` field defines the index of the event in the stream. This
value should ideally be incrementing from 0 to the number of events in the
stream. It's probably okay to have it be a monotonically increasing value too.
The point of this value is to ensure that a stream is of an expected state when
a new event is added. If an event is added with an index that already exists in
the stream, the caller knows that the stream has been changed since they last
checked the state. In this case, the caller should re-evaluate their event and
try submitting another database update with an updated index.

The `event_type_name` defines the type of the particular event in the event
union of the stream entity. This name should be used to determine how to decode
an event's content field.

The `content` field defines the data in the event itself. This value should be
an encoded event for one sub-case of an event-union defined in the events
service.

When reading an event stream, any events that fail to decode should be skipped.
This will ensure that any malformed events don't bork an entity permanently.
